Welcome back to the advance course on
Tableau and today we got a very exciting
tutorial ahead of us. We are creating our
dashboard that's going to go to the
board of directors of the venture
capital fund.
Alright so let's jump straight into it.
I'm going to click the new dashboard
button over here and this one we're
going to call the start up quadrant. You
know how our gardener be I have the
magic quadrant for lots of different
things that they measure well this is
going to be our own start up quadrant.
Alright so what do we want in this
dashboard? Obviously, want to scatter plot
that is going to be our main feature of
the dashboard and by the way in this
course we are going to be talking about
aesthetics and best practices as we go
along and proceed through the course. So
just watch out look out for that because
for instance today we're going to
mention a couple of things on that and
that will help you kind of follow best
practices in Tableau in terms of
visualizing and help your visualizations
be a bit more intuitive and a bit better
like in terms of people understanding
them more quickly and getting more
information from them. So I'm going to
actually make this window a bit bigger
because it's not fitting. My dashboard is
not fitting. You can always change the
size of your dashboard by the way. Here,
if you want you can change the width and
we'll just select different type of
dashboard as you can see like for
laptops whatever you like but in this
case I'm just going to keep it for a
desktop computer so a thousand in with
let me
ok now just that. Alright great so that's
the start about dashboard as you can see
is already looking good just with this one
chart. We don't need this because it's
it's obvious what's the blue and
the gray mean. We will need the parameter
controls so already looking good and
that's part of his aesthetic. We don't
want to put too much information to the
dashboard because then all the cluttered.
Sometimes it's okay, sometimes it's
ok to put a lot
of charts. If it's like a a very
sophisticated dashboard that provides
lots of different people, lots of differences
but for a board of directors, you
know their they've got a very short
attention span they're busy people you
don't want to put too much. So let's see
what else they want to hear. The things
that they were interested in is the
revenue and expenses which we already
kind of have here and we even have
controls that allow us to allow them
will allow them to adjust the dashboard
and adjust the criteria for we are how
they're selecting companies but they
also asked about growth so we have a tab
here for growth which is this one and
how about we put it into our dashboard
now so let's take growth and put it here
under these controls and maybe let's
make some space.
Now obviously this is not the
best-looking dashboard yet, let's add all
parameters so we'll go to analysis and
parameters growth leaders and of course
we needed above growth so this one will
go above growth because it is
controlling growth.
Alright so that's getting better, now
this is a bit of color, it's a bit blunt
right now, it's boring if we go to growth
then we take sum of growth and put it into
color. Actually we need to change this to
a square so it colors the background and
let's undo green, let's do red which
red do we want? That's okay. Well that's not
okay.
Definitely not okay, so maybe like a bit
of a darker type of red. We can fix it up
later. So that looks a bit better so
there we go.
Ok so growth leaders, so we this is not
doing anything right now right? So we
want to fix this up over here we want to
add our growth leaders
so we actually want to add our set which
is called top 10.
Let's get rid of the sense that we're
not using because it gets a bit
confusing we're not using this one this
is a static version of our set so let's
delete that and we're not using
information technology set so let's
delete that. That was just an example. We
don't need that.
Alright so now we have this growth set.
Let's put it into filter, so we only see
the top ones here.
Ok so the startup quadrant, ok looking a
bit better but still this is not good
enough and I was actually building this
for you to say to feel like this is not
exactly good enough like on one hand
we've got this on the other hand we got
this. This is not data mining let's, let's
agree on that. This is not how not the
best that we can do right? We can deliver
this to the board of executives and say
hey guys are you, can you can zoom
you can scroll here so you can find your
company's that other the best in terms
of revenue and expenses but then if you
wanna look for the growth you look at
this separate chart and then combine them
and you know use a spreadsheet or pen
and paper to find out what how they
combine. That's definitely not the way a
good data scientist or Tableau analyst
would present or solve this problem. So
how about we find a way to put the
growth on to the scatter plot? That will
be fun. That will actually show allow
them the board directors to see those
gems that they're looking for
so how can we visualize these stand over
here without impacting the integrity of
this dashboard that we've already created or this
scatterplot. Well, I'll show you a way. Let's
let's have a look at this scatterplot,
over here. So to start off with, what we
want to visualize is we want this set
for the growth we want it to also be
somehow represented. And an easy way
is to use shapes. So we have used colors
so far, but we haven't used shapes. Let's change
that.
Let's go to change circles into shapes
and now we're going to take this set and
drag it onto shape. So anything that has
or any company that has high
growth, will have a different shape and
you can already see them over here. So
there's a circle, there's a circle is a
circle but this is even worse than we
thought we just had but not worry not
worry let's let's fix up these shapes to
start off with. Here just so what I did
is I just clicked on on shape and here
in shape you can select different loads of
all sorts of different types of shapes,
so you can have a play around with that
but the one I mean to select is for just
the normal companies that are not in the
high-growth set. I'll just put a circle
as it was and their companies that are
in the higher ups and I'm going to put
diamond, click apply. So okay so we can
see a few diamonds but very hard to see
these diamonds are very hard to see. It's
it's gonna take a lot of effort on
behalf of the board to find these
diamonds.
How about we make it easier for them
let's add color to the diamonds as well.
So this is going to be fun bit, if I just
drag the set and put into color
obviously the diamonds are color but
then I lost that I've jeopardize the
integrity of the scatterplot. I no longer
have the quadrants. So I it's like you
either get one or you get the other and
but we want both.
Well it sounds like sometimes in life it
happens you want both and there is a way
to get both. All you have to do is you
take your two sets, your top start ups by
growth and your target quadrant and you
press control just like both of them and by
the way start over here you can do this
with field as well so you can drag
multiple into color but you have to do
it at the same time. You can't do it one
by one, you have to select them at the
same time and you drag these two sets
into color and viola! This looks much
better already.
Right so of course still not the best.
Let's fix it up a bit more, so now we go
to color. It's all in our hands on our
control.
Let's go to the Tableau 10 and let's say
everything that's orange right so
everything that's out, it doesn't matter
if it's diamond or if it's not a diamond.
It's not in our criteria right. So it's
this has company that's orange either
has to high revenue or too high or too
low revenue or
your expenses which are too high so
let's like both of these and make them
great. Now anything that's in our revenue
and expenses cut-offs but it's not a
diamond or it's not dark blue on this
chart is just going to be blue because
that's just the normal companies that
passes the expense criteria, but they
don't pass the growth criteria and
everything that is in both so basically
it's it passes the revenue and expense
criteria and it passes the growth
criteria that's the gems. That's the gems
that the executives are looking for and
then we'll make them red. So click apply
and as you can see already it's much
better. So here you might want to play
around with the size transparency so
maybe if you make it less transparent
maybe the red will stand out a bit more
but that is looking much better and if
we go back to the quadrant here you can
see how easy it is for the executives to
pick out the top-performing companies
that they are after and if from which
lets play around with this for a bit if
I change growth leaders a number of
growth leaders you can see how the
number of diamonds is growing very
quickly right. So you like that was
pretty cool how it changes from circle
to a diamond also you can see how as I
change the expenses cut off the number
of diamonds is decreasing or the number
of times is increasing and the revenue
as well so there you go so this allows
executives to feel like they're our the
board of directors that are going to be
looking at still feel like that actually
mining the data. They don't probably
don't know anything about Tableau or how
to use it but you are building right
here. You're building a tool for them to
mind the data and that is the power of Tableau.
That people with no experience,
whatsoever in data science, but they
know what they want from the data.
You are helping them see it and that
that is you know the true enjoyment of
this type of work and exactly what
people appreciate so much about data
visualization data mining. Ok, so we've
got the main concept
already here. All we have to do is of
course make this dashboard look pretty.
Add some you know reference lines are
going to drop lines, we're gonna fix the
tooltip, fix the colors and make it look
fantastic but the the engine everything
that we need in terms of functionality
is already there and that's how we use
sets to deliver very very powerful
Tableau tools and in the next tutorial we
will pretty this up and finalize it and
look forward to seeing you next time
until then happy analyzing.